The market in which securities are issued, purchased by investors, and subsequently transferred among investors is called the securities market. The securities market has two interdependent and inseparable segment.The primary market facilitates creation of financial assets, and the secondary market facilitates their marketability/tradability which makes these two segments of Financial Markets
* Primary Market : The primary market, also called the new issue market, is where issuers raise capital by issuing securities to investors. Fresh securities are issued in this market.
	* Public issue- Securities are issued to the members of the public, and anyone eligible to invest can participate in the issue. This is primarily a retail issue of securities.
	* Initial Public Offer (IPO) - An initial public offer of shares or IPO is the first sale of a corporate’s common shares to investors at large. The main purpose of an IPO is to raise equity capital for further growth of the business.
	* Follow on Public Offer (FPO)- When an already listed company makes either a fresh issue of securities to the public or an offer for sale to the public, it is called FPO.
	* Private Placement - It refers to issuing large quantity of shares to a select set of investors. According to Companies Act 2013, the number of investors to whom shares are issued under private placement should not exceed fifty. Private placements can be in the form of qualified institutional placements (QIP) or preferential allotment.
	* Qualified Institutional Placements (QIPs)- Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP) is a private placement of shares made by a listed company to certain identified categories of investors
	* Preferential Issue-Preferential issue means an issue of specified securities by a listed issuer to any select person or group of persons on a private placement basis and does not include an offer of specified securities made through a public issue, rights issue, bonus issue, employee stock option scheme, employee stock purchase scheme or qualified institutions placement or an issue of sweat equity shares or depository receipts issued in a country outside India or foreign securities
	* Rights and Bonus Issues - Securities are issued to existing shareholders of the company as on a specific cut-off date, enabling them to buy more securities at a specific price (in case of rights) or without any consideration (in case of bonus).
	* Onshore and Offshore Offerings - While raising capital, issuers can either issue the securities in the domestic market and raise capital or approach investors outside the country. 
	* Offer for Sale (OFS)–An Offer for Sale (OFS) is a form of share sale where the shares offered in an IPO or FPO are not fresh shares issued by the company, but an offer by existing shareholders to sell shares that have already been allotted to them.\Sweat Equity – Under Sec.54 of Companies Act, 2013, a company may issue shares to its employees, promoters, technocrats, or others as reward for their contribution to the company. These shares are referred as sweat equity.
	* Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOPs) – ESOPs are instruments given by a company to its employees that give them an option to buy the shares of the company at pre-determined price after a period of time (referred as vesting period).
* Secondary Market : The secondary market facilitates trades in already-issued securities, thereby enabling investors to exit from an investment or new investors to buy the already existing securities.
	* Over-The-Counter Market (OTC Market) - OTC markets are the markets where trades are directly negotiated between two or more counterparties. In this type of market, the securities are traded and settled over the counter among the counterparties directly.
	* Exchange Traded Markets - The other option of trading in securities is through the stock exchange route, where trading and settlement is done through the stock exchanges. The trades executed on the exchange are settled through the clearing corporation, which acts as a counterparty and guarantees the settlement of the trades to both buyers and sellers.
		* Trading- A formal contract to buy/sell securities is termed as trading.
		* Clearing and Settlement - Clearing and settlement are post trading activities that constitute the core part of equity trade life cycle. Clearing activity is all about ascertaining the net obligations of buyers and sellers for a specific time period. And, settlement is the next step of settling obligations by delivering shares (by the seller) and paying money (by the buyer)


* Various Market Participants and Their Activities
	* Market Intermediaries
		* Stock Exchanges -Stock Exchanges provide a trading platform where buyers and sellers can transact in already issued securities. Stock markets such as NSE, BSE and MSEI are nationwide exchanges
		* Depositories - Depositories are institutions that hold securities (like shares, debentures, bonds, government securities, mutual fund units) of investors in electronic form.Investors open an account with the depository through a registered Depository Participant. They also provide services related to transactions in the securities held in dematerialized form.
			* Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL) 
			* National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)
		* Depository Participant- A Depository Participant (DP) is an agent of the depository through which it interfaces with the investors and provides depository services
		* Trading Members - Trading members or Stock Brokers are registered members of a Stock Exchange.A sub-broker is an entity who is not a member of Stock Exchange but who acts on behalf of a trading member or Stock Broker as an agent for assisting the investors in buying, selling or dealing in securities through such trading member or Stock Broker with whom he is associated.
		* Authorised Person - Authorised person is any person (individual, partnership firm, LLP or body corporate), who is appointed by a stock broker or trading member as an agent to reach out to the investors scattered across the country.
		* Custodians - A Custodian is an entity that is charged with the responsibility of holding funds and securities of its large clients, typically institutions such as banks, insurance companies and foreign portfolio investors 
		* Clearing Corporation - Clearing Corporations play an important role in safeguarding the interest of investors in the Securities Market. Clearing agencies ensure that members on the Stock Exchange meet their obligations to deliver funds or securities. These agencies act as a legal counter party to all trades and guarantee settlement of all transactions on the Stock Exchanges.
		* Clearing Banks - Clearing Bank acts as an important intermediary between clearing members and the clearing corporation. Every clearing member needs to maintain an account with the clearing bank. It is the clearing member’s responsibility to make sure that the funds are available in its account with clearing bank on the day of pay-in to meet the obligations arising out of trades executed on the stock exchange.
		* Merchant Bankers - Merchant bankers are entities registered with SEBI and act as issue managers, investment bankers or lead managers. They help an issuer access the security market with an issuance of securities.They are single point contact for issuers during a new issue of securities. They evaluate the capital needs of issuers, structure an appropriate instrument, get involved in pricing the instrument and manage the entire issue process until the securities are issued and listed on a stock exchange.
		* Underwriters - Underwriters are intermediaries in the primary market who undertake to subscribe any portion of a public offer of securities which may not be bought by investors. They serve an important function in the primary market, providing the issuer the comfort that if the securities being offered to public do not elicit the desired demand from investors, they (underwriters) will step in and buy the securities.
	* Investors
		* Institutional Participants
			* Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) - A Foreign Portfolio investor (FPI) is an entity established or incorporated outside India that proposes to make investments in India.
			* P-Note Participants - Participatory Notes (P-Notes or PNs) are instruments issued by SEBI registered foreign portfolio investors to overseas investors, who wish to invest in the Indian stock markets without registering themselves with the market regulator
			* Mutual Funds - A mutual fund is a professionally managed collective investment scheme that pools money from many investors to purchase securities on their behalf. Mutual fund companies invest the pooled money in stocks, bonds, and other securities, depending upon the investment objective of the scheme which is stated upfront.
			* Insurance Companies - Insurance companies' core business is to ensure assets. Depending on the type of assets that are insured, there are various insurance companies like life insurance and general insurance etc. These companies have huge corpus and they are one of the most important investors in the Indian economy by investing in equity investments, government securities and other bonds.
			* Pension Funds - A fund established to facilitate and organize the investment of the retirement funds contributed by the employees and employers or even only the employees in some cases.
			* Venture Capital Funds - A venture capital fund refers to a pooled investment vehicle like mutual fund but with mandate to invest money in enterprises that are in the early stage of development but with the potential of long-term growth.
			* Private Equity Firms - Private equity is a term used to define funding available to companies in the early stages of growth, expansion or buy-outs. Investee companies may be privately held or publicly traded companies. The term private equity includes venture capital firms.
			* Hedge Funds - A hedge fund is an investment vehicle that pools capital from a number of investors and invests that across the assets, across the products and across the geographies. These fund managers generally have very wide mandate to generate return on the invested capital.
			* Alternative Investment Funds - These are privately pooled investment schemes that invest in various asset classes such as real estate, private companies, commodities and such other alternative investment assets.SEBI categorizes AIFs into three categories.
				* Category I AIF: These refer to AIFs which invest in start-up or early-stage ventures or social ventures or SMEs or infrastructure or other sectors or areas which the government or regulators consider as socially or economically desirable.
				* Category III AIF: These refer to those that use complex investment strategies including use of leverage and derivatives. Hedge funds, PIPE Funds, etc. are registered as Category III AIFs.
				* Category II AIF: AIFs which do not fall in Category I and III and which do not undertake leverage or borrowing (other than to meet day-to-day operational requirements) are categorized under Category II AIFs. Various types of funds such as real estate funds, private equity funds, funds for distressed assets, etc. are registered as Category II AIFs.
			* Investment Advisers - Investment advisers work with investors to help them decide on asset allocation and make a choice of investments based on an assessment of their needs, time horizon return expectation and ability to bear risk.
		* Retail Participants : Retail Investors include individual investors who buy and sell securities for their personal account, and not for another company or organization. HNIs or High Net-worth Individuals and UHNIs (Ultra High net-worth individuals) are individual investors who invest large sums of money in the market. Reserve Bank of India has also granted general permission to Non Resident Indians (NRIs), Person of Indian origin (PIOs) and Qualified Foreign Investors (QFIs) for undertaking direct investments in Indian companies under the Automatic Route.
		* Proxy Advisory services firms : Proxy advisors advise investors in relation to exercise of their rights in the company including recommendations on public offer or voting recommendation on agenda items. As investors may not be able to track shareholder announcements of all their investee companies or analyze each of the proposal in depth, the service of proxy advisors add value to them. Proxy advisors analyze voting proposals and how it affects the interest of the investors and eventually suggest how they should vote.
		* Kinds of Transactions :
			* 